
Movement behind her drew my attention away for a moment. Behind her 
were men -- in uniforms -- Civil War uniforms -- walking around. Lots 
of misty figures were walking all around me. They were all shapes and 
sizes. None of the others seemed to have features that I could see. 
They were moving in closer and closer to me. This wasn't interesting 
anymore. I turned to run. 

But the ghost of my grandmother was there in front of me holding up 
her hand -- not to me but to the others. All the other shapes stopped 
moving for a brief moment then began moving away from me. The shapes who 
appeared to be in uniform began to file past us, and as they did, each 
one would salute us. Why they were doing that, I don't know -- it didn't 
matter. In her pictures, my grandmother had always looked shy -- perhaps 
she had found courage in the next life. 

She motioned for me to follow her and I did. We climbed the hill 
where the tombstones were and then followed the hill down 'till I was 
looking out through the trees at houses that were in town. 

I took a moment to realize that the house directly across from me 
-- across a small field and on the other side of a road -- was where my 
great-aunt Sally had lived. That meant I was behind the lot where Emma's 
home had been. 

I looked over at her image and wished we had some other means to 
communicate. 

She led me back through the woods, pausing and pointing at plants and 
at the Pecan and Sassafras trees. She must have roamed these hills, too, 
as my other grandmother had done, looking for plants and nuts and berries 
to supplement her family's meager larder. 

I suddenly realized that it was completely dark except for the faint 
lightness of the misty creatures that were still slowly moving around. 

"I'll never find my way back to my car," I whispered to myself. 

My grandmother moved and I jerked my head back toward her. She 
reached her hand out, brushing her fingertips against my cheek. It 
felt like a cool, damp spiderweb. Then she motioned for me to follow 
her. 

I didn't know where we were going, but I didn't want to lose the 
contact I had established with her. When she stopped, I looked to 
where she pointed and saw that we were at the edge of the woods where 
I had entered, and I could see my car in the moonlight. 

I turned back to thank her, but she was already moving away -- 
dissipating as she went. Right before she completely disappeared, a 
tall man's figure joined her that looked like my grandfather . . . and 
then they were gone. 

I turned toward my car -- tears streaming down my face. 

I'm not sure how I got back home -- I don't remember the drive back 
from the country. And now that I was back in town, the whole thing had a 
certain unreal air about it. It had really happened . . . I kept telling 
myself that . . . over and over. 

I went into my apartment, greeted my cat and sat down on the couch 
with a book. I flipped through and came across the letter Chief Seattle 
wrote to the governor to whom the chief's people had just sold their 
land. His words jumped off the page at me, and instead of being a threat, 
they were strangely comforting: 

